.TH VLOCK-PLUGINS 5 "10 November 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
vlock-plugins \- plugin support for vlock
.SH DESCRIPTION
If vlock-main(8) is compiled with plugin support its default features are very
limited: it can only lock the current session and ask for authenticiaton.
However it is possible to extend this functions through plugins.  These plugins
are loaded when vlock-main starts and can provide hooks that are called at
certain points during the lifetime of the vlock-main process.
.PP
.SH "DEFAULT PLUGINS"
The following plugins are provided when installing vlock with default options:
.PP
.B all
.IP
This plugin locks all sessions by disabling console switching.  It is also
loaded when giving the \fB-a,--all\fR option to vlock(1).

.PP
.B new
.IP
This plugin switches to a new virtual console before disabling console
switching through the "all" plugin.  It is also loaded when giving the
\fB-n,--new\fR option to vlock(1).
.PP
.B nosysrq
.IP
Linux only.  This plugin disables the Linux SysRQ mechanism before the console
switching is locked by the "all" plugin.  It is also loaded when giving the
\fB-s,--disable-sysrq\fR option to vlock(1).
.PP
.SH "ADDITIONAL PLUGINS"
The following plugins are only available if explicitely selected at build time:
.PP
.B caca
.IP
This plugin runs a random libcaca screensaver when the screen is locked.
.SH WRITING PLUGINS
For information about writing plugins see the PLUGINS file in the vlock source
distribution.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vlock (1),
.BR vlock-main (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Benkstein <frank-vlock@benkstein.net>
