.TH VLOCK-MAIN 8 "28 July 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
vlock-main \- lock current virtual console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlock-main [plugins...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvlock-main\fR is part of vlock(1), the Virtual Console locking program for
Linux.  It locks the current session and will only exit if the current user can
authenticate themselves.  The root user will also be able to unlock the
session, unless disabled at compile time.  The command line arguments specify
plugins that should be loaded by vlock-main.  See vlock-plugins(5) for more
information.
.PP
If plugin support is disabled at compile time, the only supported argument is
"all".
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables can be used to change the behavior of
vlock-main:
.PP
.B USER
.IP
If this variable is when vlock-main is run as root (uid 0) vlock locks
the screen as this user instead of root.  The root password will still be able
to unlock the session, unless disabled at compile time.
.PP
.B VLOCK_ALL_MESSAGE
.IP
If this variable is set and all consoles are locked its contents will be used
as the locking message instead of the default message.
.PP
.B VLOCK_CURRENT_MESSAGE
.IP
If this variable is set and only the current consoles is locked its contents
will be used as the locking message instead of the default message.
.PP
.B VLOCK_MESSAGE
.IP
If this variable is set its contents will be used as the locking message
instead of the default.  This overrides the former two variables.
.PP
.B VLOCK_TIMEOUT
.IP
Set this variable to specify the timeout (in seconds) after which the screen
saver plugins (if any) will be invoked.  If this variable is unset or set to an
invalid value or 0 no timeout is used.  See vlock-plugins(5) for more
information about plugins.
.PP
.B VLOCK_PROMPT_TIMEOUT
.IP
Set this variable to specify the amount of time (in seconds) you will have to
enter your password at the password prompt.  If this variable is unset or set
to an invalid value or 0 no timeout is used.  \fBWarning\fR: If this value is
too low, you may not be able to unlock your session.
.PP
.SH SIGNALS
Several signals are ignored.  \fBvlock-main\fR will try to exit cleanly if
SIGTERM is received.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vlock (1),
.BR vlock-plugins (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Benkstein <frank-vlock@benkstein.net>
